Learning About Area 51 for Lightning Talk
3-7-2018
Set the Stage
For my third learn to learn I learned about Area 51 in order to present about it for my first lightning talk. I love conspiracy theories and Area 51 is one of the most fascinating. I set the stage by sitting in a comfortable chair and putting on my headphones and closing my eyes and beginning to listen to a podcast about Area 51. I followed up by reading everything I could about the subject on Wikipedia and a few other sources. My intention was to come away with enough knowledge to give an informative and entertaining lightning talk with a few reasons supporting the Area 51 conspiracy and a few reasons debunking it. 


Play
I began by listening to a fascinating podcast called Conspiracy Theories. The two part episode was about Area 51. They started with giving the history of the military base and how it was used for high altitude testing originally and all of the dark military projects that pass through its doors. They podcast then covered the conspiracy theories and their origins in history and then the journalists discussed each theory and their believability. I followed up the podcast by reading everything I could about Area 51 and went down a bit of a Wikipedia rabbit hole.


Reflection
I came away from this learn to learn with a solid understanding of Area 51 and also the US secretive military projects. I am really excited to give this lightning talk in a couple weeks and I think everyone will find it entertaining. The questions that I came away with are numerous. Mostly I find it fascinating that conspiracy theories tend to stretch the truth, yet there usually is a considerable amount of truth to give fuel to the conspiracy. I wonder how much truth are in other conspiracies and plan to follow up by researching more when I have time. 
SPOILER >>>>  My conclusion is that Area 51 is definitely still a top secret level military testing facility most likely for very high tech aircraft and autonomous vehicles, but alas does not house aliens :( 
