Learning Sicilian Defense in Chess
3-6-2018

Set the Stage
For my second learn-to-learn I decided to focus on learning the Sicilian Defense which is an opening for black in chess. I play chess semi competitively and have never really taken to the time to study this opening. It is an opening for black that is so effective as a defensive setup that top players starting as white tend to avoid playing any openings that could allow black to utilize the Sicilian Defense. 
I set the stage by turning off my phone, setting up my chess board in the living room of my apartment, and grabbing some green tea. My intentions were to have a playable understanding of the opening and be able to play a few different variations by the time I was done. 


Play
I began by reading some introductions to the Sicilian and what the main objectives of the position Black hopes to obtain by utilizing the opening. Most beginning to intermediate level chess players believe control of the central part of the board is the most important objective in the first third of a game. The Sicilian Defense takes advantage of this by immediately ceding control of the central part of the board to White. Black instead develops the queenside bishop and knight and begins to start attacking White’s central position from the flanks. 
Black quickly develops an extremely tough defensive position and is capable of launching lethal counter-attacks. 
I played through a few different variations and then played a full game starting as Black utilizing the Sicilian Defense. The game led to a pretty complicated position about 20 moves in but I was able to use the strong phalanx I had built to overwhelm White and win the game with White surrendering after 35 moves. It was fun! 


Reflection
Overall I felt very confident in my working knowledge of the Sicilian after this process. Setting the stage and clearly stating my intentions really helped me to focus on the task since I had a particular outcome in mind. Many times before I had read a bit about the Sicilian but never really translated that into actual practice because I hadn’t really set an intention to do so. I hope to continue to develop this starting foundation with this defensive opening to build it out a bit more and see what some solid counter openings for White would be. An understanding of both sides of the board is essential to great chess play. 
